Stock Market Trend Analysis Project
Overview
This project explores stock market trends, leveraging data science techniques to analyze stock performances, sentiment analysis on financial news, and optimize investment portfolios. Focused on a select group of tickers (MSFT, CRM, CRWD, ZM, SHOP, AAPL), it aims to provide insights into their historical performance, market sentiment surrounding these companies, and strategies for portfolio optimization.

Features
Historical Price Analysis: Utilizes Yahoo Finance data to examine stock price trends over time.
Sentiment Analysis: Applies NLP techniques to gauge the market sentiment from financial news and social media.
Portfolio Optimization: Implements Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) to identify the optimal asset allocation.
Getting Started
Prerequisites
Ensure you have Python installed on your system, along with Jupyter Notebooks. This project also requires the following Python libraries: pandas, numpy, matplotlib, yfinance, scikit-learn, textblob.

You can install these with the following command:

sh
Copy code
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib yfinance scikit-learn textblob jupyter
Installation
Clone this repository to your local machine to get started:

sh
Copy code
git clone https://your-repository-url-here
Navigate to the project directory and launch Jupyter Notebook:

sh
Copy code
cd path/to/your/project
jupyter notebook
Open the Stock_Market_Trend_Analysis.ipynb notebook to view the project.

Usage
The project is structured as a Jupyter Notebook consisting of various sections each dedicated to a specific part of the analysis:

Data Collection: Fetches historical stock data using yfinance.
Data Exploration and Visualization: Provides insights into stock performance over time.
Sentiment Analysis: Analyzes sentiment from textual data and correlates it with stock prices.
Portfolio Optimization: Demonstrates how to allocate assets to maximize returns for a given level of risk.
Run each cell in the notebook from top to bottom to replicate the analysis.

Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome. Please follow these steps to contribute:

Fork the project repository.
Create a new branch (git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature).
Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature').
Push to the branch (git push origin feature/AmazingFeature).
Open a Pull Request.
License
Distributed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for more information.

Acknowledgments
Data provided by Yahoo Finance via the yfinance library.
Sentiment analysis powered by textblob.
Portfolio optimization techniques inspired by Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT).



